## Overview

The `CARTO Data Warehouse` connection grants access to a set of demo tables and tilesets that can be used to start creating stunning maps and exploring the tools from the very beginning. 

They're available and ready to be used in the Data Explorer and Builder and you can start using them with all components of the CARTO platform, such as running advanced spatial analysis with our Analytics Toolbox, with everything running directly on top of the provisioned `CARTO Data Warehouse`connection. 

In this section, we provide a varied set of tutorials on how to get the most out of your data:

{{<grid>}}

{{% tutorialCard title="Assessing the damages of La Palma Volcano" description="Since 11 September 2021, a swarm of seismic activity had been ongoing in the southern part of the Spanish Canary Island of La Palma (Cumbre Vieja region). The increasing frequency, magnitude, and shallowness of the seismic events were an indication of a pending volcanic eruption; which occurred on 16th September, leading to evacuation of people living in the vicinity. In this tutorial we are going to assess the number of buildings and population that may get affected by the lava flow and its deposits. We'll also estimate the value of damaged residential properties affected by the volcano eruption." url="./assessing-the-damages-of-la-palma-volcano" image="/img/cloud-native-workspace/tutorials/volcano.png" %}}

{{% tutorialCard title="Build a categories & bubbles visualization" description="Understanding population distribution has important implications in a wide range of geospatial analysis such as human exposure to hazards and climate change or improving geomarketing and site selection strategies. In this tutorial we are going to represent the distribution of the most populated places by applying colours to each type of place and a point size based on the maximum population. Therefore, we can easily understand how the human settlement areas is distributed with a simple visualization that we can use in further analysis." url="./build-a-categories-and-bubbles-visualization" image="/img/cloud-native-workspace/tutorials/bubbles.png" %}}

{{% tutorialCard title="Build an animated visualization with time series" description="There is an increasing need for conservation and connection with nature in cities. In this sense, geospatial analysis plays an important role in the effective management of our natural resources. In this tutorial we are going to represent the distribution of tree species in the streets of San Francisco by color and we will add some interaction through widgets, which will allow us to explore the map by selecting targered filters of interest. In this example, filters are applied by specie and date of planting." url="./build-an-animated-visualization-with-time-series" image="/img/cloud-native-workspace/tutorials/animated.png" %}}

{{% tutorialCard title="Find the best place to create a store near the customers" description="Understanding & analyzing spatial data is critical to the future of your business. CARTO 3 Location Intelligence platform allows organizations to store, enrich,analyze & visualize their data to make spatially-aware decisions. In this example we are going to use points clustering to analyze how to find the best place to locate six stores in Portland city based on proximity to customers." url="./find-the-best-place-to-create-a-store-near-the-customers" image="/img/cloud-native-workspace/tutorials/stores.png" %}}

{{% tutorialCard title="Create a tileset and build a basic visualization" description="Understanding the urban areas has important implications in a wide range of geospatial analysis, for example, to inform decision-makers in sectors such as urban planning. In this example we are creating a tileset in which each building in Madrid is represented by a polygon and each of them is assigned a graduated color from the lowest to the highest value of the gross floor area. This visualisation allows us to represent at a glance how the surface area in Madrid is distributed." url="./create-a-tileset-and-build-a-basic-visualization" image="/img/cloud-native-workspace/tutorials/tileset.png" %}}

{{% tutorialCard title=" Build a 3D map with a tileset" description="A geospatial analysis of land use dynamics has special relevance for the management of many phenomena, such as the assessment of the loss of soil due to erosion or the reduction of rural land in favour of the built-up areas. In this regard, Digital elevation Models (DEM) are important inputs to quantify the characteristics of the land surface. In this example we are building a map from a tileset createad by CARTO from a new NASA Digital Elevation Model (NASADEM). We are going to represent the distribution of land elevation by using a gradual color palette and then build a 3D visualization by assigning heights to polygons." url="./build-a-3d-map-with-a-tileset" image="/img/cloud-native-workspace/tutorials/3d.png" %}}

{{</grid>}}
